---
layout: post
title: Lab 2 Write-Up (Part 2)
subtitle: By Aanya Gupta
cover-img: /assets/purple.png
thumbnail-img: /assets/donut.png
share-img: /assets/donuts.png
tags: [World Bank, API, Python, Data Science, AOD]
---

It was Thanksgiving, so I first had some turkey, mashed potatoes, creamed spinach, and apple pie. Then, I began working on Part 2 of this lab! 

*Note 1: I did each part of this lab in different python files, and compiled them together at the end.*
*Note 2: I tried each chunk of code like 5 times, so I apologize if there are duplicates of my files on your end. :,)*

## Cleaning my CSV file

Firstly, I knew that I needed to remove any rows from the csv which contained empty boxes. After brainstorming a couple of ways to do so, I settled on one idea; the csv would be analyzed row by row for blanks. If there was not nothing--rather, if there was something--in the box, then the rows would be appended to an empty list, which could then be printed in a new csv file. 

Hence, I wrote the following code:

```
import csv

off_rows = []

with open('LAB2_AG.csv', 'r') as file:
    reader = csv.reader(file)

    for row in reader:
        if "" not in row:  
            off_rows.append(row)

with open('OFF_LAB2_AG.csv', 'w', newline='') as file:
    writer = csv.writer(file)
    writer.writerows(off_rows)
```

I ran the code to make sure my new CSV file looked okay, but I realised that only one row had data for all of the indicators (India, 2000). Yikes! I went back to my old code and played around with adding more countries and switching my indicators until it looked like I had a good amount of data in my cleaned csv file. 

The indicators I ended up picking were:

1. Refugee population
2. Access to electricity
3. Primary school enrollment 
4. Primary completion rate
5. Fertility rate

The countries I ended up picking were:

1. USA
2. India
3. Nigeria
4. Bangladesh
5. Argentina
6. Kenya
7. Panama
8. Costa Rica
9. Senegal

With my new csv, I began querying Ms. Feng's API! 

## Querying Ms. Feng's API

### Endpoint 0: Authorization

To be honest, when I first read the "readme" file, I had no idea how to start. So, I researched API keys and POST requests on [this website](https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/get-post-requests-using-python/) and got a pretty good grasp on the concepts. I used their code as a template for my own, and thus came up with this:

```
import requests

def create_api_key(username):
    response = requests.post(
        "https://ifenghm.pythonanywhere.com/create_api_key",
        headers={"Content-Type": "application/json"},
        json={"username": username}
    )
    print(response.text)  

create_api_key("aanya1_gupta1")
```

It's important to note that I tried a ton of different ways to code this and kept getting error, leading me to almost max out on the amount of times I could try to get an API key. You live and you learn!

One notable error: The `response.text` part was originally response.json, but I changed it because I kept getting errors. I asked Siddhant what was wrong with my code, and he said that the response wasn't necessarily in JSON format. Instead, he recommended using `response.text` and my code worked!

The API key I ended up getting was: 9Tu4H4SZqjLZyEwtXGIutUaMKZgHfYk2gEMUASZfMIXYLGfVeYJEou9T2lSioURl

### Endpoint 1: Upload Data

Given the information in the packet, I already had a couple of ideas as to how I could upload my data, including adding the values to a dictionary and transferring that. However, after writing the code for that, I kept getting an error which said that the float values in my csv could not be processed. So, I had to incorporate code that translated the float values into integer values. I needed a bit of help with that, so I went through basically every website on [this page](https://www.google.com/search?q=how+to+translate+float+valurs+into+integer+values+csv+without+pandas&sca_esv=771c07ff8925bee9&ei=dBpPZ4mHGd6jptQPlOCdeQ&ved=0ahUKEwiJkaur7IuKAxXekYkEHRRwJw8Q4dUDCA8&uact=5&oq=how+to+translate+float+valurs+into+integer+values+csv+without+pandas&gs_lp=Egxnd3Mtd2l6LXNlcnAiRGhvdyB0byB0cmFuc2xhdGUgZmxvYXQgdmFsdXJzIGludG8gaW50ZWdlciB2YWx1ZXMgY3N2IHdpdGhvdXQgcGFuZGFzSJITUPABWKMScAJ4AJABAJgBaqABiQqqAQQxNC4zuAEDyAEA-AEBmAIKoAKgBsICChAAGLADGNYEGEfCAgcQIRigARgKwgIEECEYCsICBxAhGAoYqwLCAgUQIRifBZgDAOIDBRIBMSBAiAYBkAYIkgcDNS41oAeKjwE&sclient=gws-wiz-serp) and got a pretty good idea of what I was supposed to write. So, I got this:

```
import csv
import requests


api_key = "9Tu4H4SZqjLZyEwtXGIutUaMKZgHfYk2gEMUASZfMIXYLGfVeYJEou9T2lSioURl"
file_path = "OFF_LAB2_AG.csv"
columns = ["ref_pop", "access_to_elec", "prim_schl_enrollment", "prim_complete_rate", "fert_rate"]

my_data = {col: [] for col in columns}

with open(file_path, "r") as file:
    reader = csv.DictReader(file)
    for row in reader:
        for col in columns:
            value = row[col]
            try:
                my_data[col].append(int(float(value)))  
            except ValueError:
                my_data[col].append(value)  

response = requests.post(
    "https://ifenghm.pythonanywhere.com/upload",
    headers={
        "Content-Type": "application/json",
        "apikey": api_key
    },
    json=my_data
)

print(response.json())
```

### Endpoint 2: Analyze Data

After changing the float values to integers, this step was pretty easy. The template for the code was essentially in the packet, and so I just followed that and added a get request. Hence, I ended up with the following code:

```
import requests

api_key = "9Tu4H4SZqjLZyEwtXGIutUaMKZgHfYk2gEMUASZfMIXYLGfVeYJEou9T2lSioURl"

params = {
    "independent": "ref_pop",  
    "dependent": "access_to_elec",  
    "id": "83ca9327-6719-427b-9f18-49eefa157d1c"
}

response = requests.get(
    "https://ifenghm.pythonanywhere.com/analyze",
    headers={"apikey": api_key},
    params=params
)

print(response.json())
```

I obtained the following p-values and slopes:

*Note 1: Refer to the list of indicators for what the numbers correlate to.*

*Note 2: Ms. Feng said that I should discuss four of the p-values I obtained.*

1 and 2: <br />
{'p_value': 0.0003619472109996913, 'slope': -7.719945505129205e-05}

Since the p-value is less than 0.05, it can be determined that there is a significant relationship between refugee population and access to electricity. Hence, the null hypothesis can be rejected. Due to the negative slope, it can be concluded that the two indicators have an inverse relationship; as refugee population increases, access to electricity decreases. However, the exceedingly small value of the slope means that an increase in ref. pop will result in a very minor decrease in access to elec. This makes sense for a couple of reasons, one being that refugees might migrate to communities that have limited access to electricity, and an increase in the population without an increase in supply could result in a loss of access to other/all residents. 

refugees live in camps that do not have access to electricity,   

1 and 3: <br />
{'p_value': 0.5512035005025147, 'slope': 7.304333671797054e-06}

Since the p-value is greater than 0.05, it can be determined that there is no significant relationship between refugee population and primary school enrollment. Hence, the null hypothesis must be accepted. This makes sense because the presence of refugees, or lack theoreof, in primary schools would most likely not have an effect on the children who were already enrolled. Also, whether refugees have access to primary schools will vary depending on countless factors.  

2 and 3: <br />
{'p_value': 0.0, 'slope': 0.42863470752645205}

Since the p-value is less than 0.05, it can be determined that there is a significant relationship between access to electricity and primary school enrollment. Hence, the null hypothesis can be rejected. Due to the positive slope, it can be concluded that the two indicators have a direct relationship; as access to electricity increases, primary school enrollment increases as well. Also, a p-value of 0.0 indicates that the relationship between the indicators is very strong. This makes sense because not only because other studies have validated this relationship, but also because access to electricity helps students improve their literacy and the quality of their education through computers, smart classrooms, etc, which might lead more families to enroll their kids in primary schools. 

3 and 5: <br />
{'p_value': 6.73632971626148e-09, 'slope': -1.0586663568773214}

Since the p-value is much, much greater than 0.05, it can be determined that there is definitely no significant relationship between primary school enrollment and fertility rate. Hence, the null hypothesis must be accepted. This makes sense because the data was not even collected from the same age groups (I just realized this...oops), and it's also just logically reasonable for the two indicators to not be correlated. 

Other values obtained:

1 and 4: <br />
{'p_value': 0.30095074408211464, 'slope': 1.795399743475326e-05}

1 and 5: <br />
{'p_value': 0.39373985872314843, 'slope': -1.9667431895057996e-05}

2 and 4: <br />
{'p_value': 0.0, 'slope': 0.5737984128568574}

2 and 5: <br />
{'p_value': 9.447997939560082e-13, 'slope': -0.6815606907566376}

3 and 4: <br />
{'p_value': 0.0, 'slope': 1.3114931846344486}

4 and 5: <br />
{'p_value': 8.45458450804415e-07, 'slope': -0.6497926732210453}

## Conclusion

Overall, this lab was pretty hard, but it was a lot of fun! In addition to the skills I mentioned in my last blog post, I also learned about apikeys, POST requests, how to upload my data, and how to obtain p-values for my indicators. I think I did a good job of writing shorter code than I normally do, and I had a good understanding of all the concepts discussed in this lab. 
