---
layout: post
title: Lab 4 Write-Up
subtitle: By Aanya Gupta
cover-img: /assets/purple.png
thumbnail-img: /assets/pizza.png
share-img: /assets/pizza.png
tags: [Data Visualizations, Altair, Python, AOD]
---

First, I read the assignment description and realized that I needed to find 2 data visualizations. 

Naturally, the first thing I searched up was “Articles with Data Visualizations.” Luckily, the NYT had a great article with 75 links to various graphs, and they were specifically designed for student analysis. After searching for a bit, I found two different graphs which seemed interesting, and that I thought I could recreate. 

## Data Visualization 1

[Link to the actual graph](https://www.nytimes.com/2022/02/03/learning/whats-going-on-in-this-graph-feb-9-2022.html)

This was my methodology (there’s a reason it’s numbered!)

1. I estimated the coordinates of each point on the original graph, and went on Google Sheets to write them into a csv file. 
1. I created my scatter plot with `alt.Chart()` and `.mark_circle()`
1. The graph was pretty small, so I changed the size using `.properties()`
1. I created the y=x black line apparent on the real graph using `mark_line()`. However, I had to look up how to represent y=x (the source is listed in my code)
1. I realized that some of the data points didn’t seem to be in the right place, so I edited the csv file I created. 
1. I noticed that the x and y-axis domain and spacing was different from the original graph. I asked Ms. Feng how to change it and I learned I could use `alt.Axis()` and `alt.Scale()`
1. I had no idea how to put text *onto* a graph and position it, so I looked it up (source listed in code) and found that I could use`pd.DataFrame()` and `mark_text()`
1. After some repositioning of various little things, I finalized the graph!

<head>
  <script src="https://cdn.jsdelivr.net/npm/vega@5"></script>
  <script src="https://cdn.jsdelivr.net/npm/vega-lite@5"></script>
  <script src="https://cdn.jsdelivr.net/npm/vega-embed@6"></script>
</head>

<div id="vis"></div>

<script type="text/javascript">
  var spec = "https://raw.githubusercontent.com/AG-Aanya-Gupta/AG-Aanya-Gupta.github.io/refs/heads/master/Chart1.json";
  vegaEmbed('#vis', spec).then(function(result) {
  }).catch(console.error);
</script>

### What do you find interesting about this data visualization? Why did you choose it?

I was drawn to this data visualization because of its appearance; we haven’t learned how to label points, put text *on* graphs, or adjust x and y-axis spacing (I think). Also, I knew there would be many additional, tiny design features that I’d have to learn about and account for in my depiction of the graph. 

Regarding the topic, I do a lot of independent scientific research related to teenage mental health, so a study about optimism seemed like a good fit for me, even if the participants were of varying ages. Though, there was somewhat of a teen/young adult to older adult comparison, which seemed pretty interesting. 

### What is the data visualization showing?

This graph shows how young adults (15-24 yrs), and adults (40+ yrs) responded to the question: “Do you think the world is becoming a better or worse place with each generation?” The data is from a survey of more than 21,000 people from 21 countries. 

The most optimistic country was found to be Indonesia (75% optimistic youth, 88% optimistic adults), and the most pessimistic country is Brazil (13% optimistic youth, 29% optimistic adults). If there were any points on the black line, it would show that for select countries, the same percentage of 40+ year olds and 15-24-year olds think the world is getting better. Though, Mali, Bangladesh, Morocco, Nigeria, and India are relatively close, ascending in optimism in that order (see dataset for specific optimistic percentages). 

### What are the marks and channels?

Marks: The actual points on the graph
Channels: The x-axis placement, the y-axis placement, and the country labels

## Data Visualization 2

[Link to the actual graph](https://www.nytimes.com/2023/04/27/learning/whats-going-on-in-this-graph-may-3-2023.html)

1. I repeated steps 1-3 and 5-6, instead creating a line graph using `mark_line()`
1. I used `alt.Chart()` and `mark_line()` to color the line graph grey and orange in the desired areas
1. I added two orange data points at 2022 and 2023 using `mark_circle()`
1. I added labels to the two, orange data points using `mark_text()`. At first, it didn't work, so I asked Ms. Feng what to do, and we realized that the shorthand code attached to "Year" and "Hours" were incorrect.
1. I created a graph title using .properties(), but it changed the domain of the y-axis. Ms. Feng and I tried resolving the issue, but after trying for a while, we settled on it being okay as is.
1. Similarly, we tried fixing the x-axis labels to make them look like real years (1,980 vs 1980, for eg). However, even after lots of test runs, the code didn't work. So, we also settled on leaving the x-axis as is. 

<head>
  <script src="https://cdn.jsdelivr.net/npm/vega@5"></script>
  <script src="https://cdn.jsdelivr.net/npm/vega-lite@5"></script>
  <script src="https://cdn.jsdelivr.net/npm/vega-embed@6"></script>
</head>

<div id="visual"></div>

<script type="text/javascript">
  var spec = "https://raw.githubusercontent.com/AG-Aanya-Gupta/AG-Aanya-Gupta.github.io/refs/heads/master/Chart2.json";
  vegaEmbed('#visual', spec).then(function(result) {

  }).catch(console.error);
</script>

### What do you find interesting about this data visualization? Why did you choose it?

Well, I don’t know anything about baseball. Considering I value my time, and would like to see a baseball game in the future, this seemed like a decent place to start! 

I must admit, I wasn’t sure if it would be that interesting. However, just from reading the first few paragraphs of the NYT article from which I pulled this graph, I learned so much new terminology. Now, I might have some idea on what people are talking about when they’re discussing baseball!

### What is the data visualization showing?

This graph shows the average length of the first three weeks of baseball games for 44 seasons, from 1980 to 2023. We can see that the average length follows a generally upward trend from 1980 - 1995 (with a couple of dips) before a major drop in 1998. From that year until 2006, there’s a generally downward trend, until major upward spikes pop up from then until the end of the 2022 season. 

In 2023, pitch clocks in stadiums were introduced to count down between every pitch, forcing pitchers and batters to act quickly. Hence, it makes sense that there is a MAJOR drop in the average length of a baseball game from 2022 - 2023 (3 hours and 8 mins to 2 hours and 39 mins). 

While I have that last piece of context, it would be interesting to find possible reasons for the other trends apparent in the graph in past years. 

### What are the marks and channels?

Marks: The actual line, the two visible points
Channels:  The x-axis placement, the y-axis placement, the time labels, color (one part of the line is orange and the two visible points are orange)

## Conclusion

Overall, I really enjoyed this lab! It was pretty hard to use Altair at first, but after LOTS of trial and error, I got the hang of it. I hope we do more labs like this in the future!
